[CASE_NUMBER][STREET_ADDRESS]CUIT COURT

DIVISION SEVEN (7)

JUDGE AUDRA ECKERLE

MOHAMED AMBURE PLAINTIFF

v\. **[PLAINTIFF MOHAMED AMBURE'S MOTIONS IN LIMINE]{.underline}**

[COMPANY_NAME] CO. DEFENDANT

\* \* \* \* \* \*

Comes now, the Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], by and through counsel and moves this Court for an Order in *Limine* precluding the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], directly, indirectly, or in any manner whatsoever, the matters set forth below:

**1. The Kentucky Uniform Police Traffic Collision Report.**

Uniform police traffic collision reports are inadmissible under Kentucky law. KRE 803(8)(A); *see also [PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME]*, 426 S.W.2d 431, 438 (Ky. 1968). Therefore, the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME].

**2. Challenges to the Established Liability.**

Discovery thus far has conclusively established Progressive is the reparation obligor for Mohamed Ambure. In fact, their CR 30.02(6) designated corporate representative, Owen K. Caster, III, testified on behalf of Progressive during a deposition on [DATE] and affirmed that Progressive was aware of the subject collision of [DATE], that Progressive did not dispute that the Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] was involved in the subject collision ([Exhibit \_\_\_]{.mark} 10:3 -- 10:15), that their own investigation also determined the accident did occur as reported ([Exhibit \_\_\_\_]{.mark} 43:20 -- 44:7), and that Progressive is indeed the reparation obligor for Mohamed Ambure. \*\*\*\*10:16 -- 11:7

**3. Challenges to the Necessity or Reasonableness of Plaintiffs' Medical Bills.**

In all motor vehicle accident cases, "\[t\]here shall be a presumption that any medical bill submitted is reasonable." KRS 304.39-020(5)(a). To overcome this statutory presumption, the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME]. *[PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME],* 580 S.W.2d 490 (Ky. 1979) ("Under such circumstances the probative force of the medical bills is so persuasive on the issue of the reasonableness of the amount of charges for 'medical expense' that there is nothing for the jury to decide and the issue should not \[be\] submitted to them.") In *Bolin*, which also involved an automobile accident, the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], but furnished no evidence to impeach the charges for such treatment. The Kentucky Supreme Court held that a jury should not be asked to decide whether medical expenses are reasonable or necessary in absence of evidence to rebut the statutory presumption of reasonableness. Here, the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME]. However, under the above authority, without impeachment evidence, the Court must presume Plaintiffs' medical bills are necessary and reasonable.

**4. Challenges Regarding the Cause or Extent of Plaintiffs' Injuries.**

The Court should exclude all testimony, arguments, or opinions offered by lay witnesses or Defendants' attorneys regarding the cause or extent of Plaintiffs' injuries. Specifically, Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], or that Plaintiffs' injuries are not as severe as they claim. Such medical testimony is solely within the purview of a biomechanical or medical expert, which Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME].

KRE 701(c) prohibits any lay witness from offering opinion testimony "based on scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge within the scope of Rule 702." Any testimony, argument, or opinion that the subject accident was not the medical cause of Plaintiffs' injuries must be based solely upon scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge which only an expert qualified under KRE 702 may offer. The need for such expert testimony is particularly important in this case, where Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] by the subject accident or are not as severe as Plaintiff's doctors opine.

Similarly, Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME]. Such testimony may only be properly given by an expert. Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] are not licensed to practice medicine and are not qualified

to render a diagnosis. Therefore, they obviously are not qualified to render a medical assessment as to Plaintiffs' medical diagnosis or prognosis, or to attempt to educate a jury on such matters.

**5. Collateral Source Payments.**

The existence of any collateral source payments made in connection with the care and treatment of Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] and inadmissible. KRE 401; KRE 402; *O'[PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME]*, 892 S.W.2d 571 (Ky. 1995). Accordingly, Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] by the Plaintiff.

**6**. **Facts not in evidence.**

It is expected that defense counsel will attempt to argue facts not in evidence to the jury. Specifically, defense counsel should be excluded from introducing alleged medical records which are not supported and authenticated by the treating physician. ([CITE DEPO]{.mark}) Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], though he has no duty to prove such in this instance. Defense counsel questioned the physician, Dr. Barrett, under oath relative to alleged pre-MVA medical records of a "Mohamed Ambure" however, Dr. Barrett had no record of the same, and no recollection of the same. ([CITE DEPO]{.mark}) Any records not authenticated by the provider, are not relevant pursuant to KRE 401, and are not admissible, KRE 402.

The defense counsel cannot be allowed to present inadmissible documents as evidence in any form to indicate that the same is factually true concerning this Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], cause a confusion of the issues, and is therefore improper under KRE 403. Plaintiff respectfully requests the court enter an order in *limine* instructing defense counsel not to argue facts not in evidence.

**7. Miscellaneous Irrelevant and/or Prejudicial Matters.**

> \(a\) Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME].
>
> \(b\) Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME].
>
> \(c\) Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], how, or why Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], or the circumstances under which Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME].
>
> \(d\) Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME].

**8. That the Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] by a preponderance of the evidence.**

The rule in Kentucky is that a jury should not be told... "that a litigant must prove his or her case by a preponderance of the evidence." *[PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME] by Greene* 709 S.W.2d 850, 852 (Ky. 1986); see also, *[PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME],* 906 S.W.2d 356, 357 (Ky. 1995); 2 Palmore, *Kentucky Instructions to Juries,* ยง13.11(f)(2009). Accordingly, Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], suggestion or argument directed toward Plaintiff's burden of proof.

> Respectfully Submitted,
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>
> Aaron M. Murphy
>
> MURPHY & ASSOCIATES PLC
>
> 455 S. 4^th^ Street, Suite 1250
>
> Louisville, Kentucky [ZIP_CODE]
>
> Phone: [PHONE]
>
> Fax: [PHONE]
>
> Email: <[EMAIL]>
>
> *Attorney for the Plaintiff, Mohamed Ambure*

**[CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE]{.underline}**

This is to certify that a true and accurate copy of Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] was sent via e-mail to the below listed counsel and support staff for Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], electronically served this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 2016:

[Alex J. Kuebbing]{.mark}

[**[[EMAIL]]{.mark}**](mailto:[EMAIL])

**[[[EMAIL]]{.mark}](mailto:[EMAIL])**

GWIN STEINMETZ & BAIRD, PLLC

401 West Main Street, Suite 1000

Louisville, Kentucky [ZIP_CODE]

Tel: [PHONE]

Fax: [PHONE]

*Counsel for Defendant*

> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>
> Aaron M. Murphy

Furthermore, the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], as evidenced in the Explanation of Benefits (hereinafter, "EOB") documents annexed as [Exhibit \#]{.mark}, by either failing to provide any explanation (also see [Exhibit \_\_\_\_]{.mark} 91:8 -- 94:2; and 94:25 -- 96:11; and 97:12 -- 97:24; and 98:20 -- 99:12) where the EOB references the reason BRB payment has not been made as, "see Comments Section." However, there are no comments associated with the EOB's; those sections are empty. Therein, Progressive fails to provide a reason to Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME]. The only other reason Progressive disclosed to Mr. Ambure for nonpayment of BRB is, "Claims Pending due to Litigation" (see [Exhibit \_\_\_]{.mark} 94:8 -- 94:19; and 98:5 -- 98:14; and 99:18 -- 100:7; and 101:1 -- 101:5). Litigation pending is not a lawful reason to deny paying BRB to a basic reparation insured whom Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] was operating a secured vehicle, covered under their own policy of which they received premiums from Plaintiff. Progressive's failure to comport with the requirements of the KMVRA is thus, inexcusable and without foundation.

**[CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE]{.underline}**

This is to certify that a true and accurate copy of the foregoing Memorandum in Support of Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment was sent via e-mail to the below listed counsel for Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], electronically served this \_\_\_\_ day of February 2016:

[Alex J. Kuebbing]{.mark}

[**[[EMAIL]]{.mark}**](mailto:[EMAIL])

[**[[EMAIL]]{.mark}**](mailto:[EMAIL])GWIN STEINMETZ & BAIRD, PLLC

401 West Main Street, Suite 1000

Louisville, Kentucky [ZIP_CODE]

Tel: [PHONE]

Fax: [PHONE]

*Counsel for Defendant*

> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>
> Aaron Michael Murphy
