[CASE_NUMBER][STREET_ADDRESS]CUIT COURT

DIVISION SEVEN (7)

JUDGE AUDRA ECKERLE

MOHAMED AMBURE PLAINTIFF

v\. **[PLAINTIFF MOHAMED AMBURE'S MEMORANDUM IN]{.underline}**

**[SUPPORT OF HIS MOTIONS IN LIMINE]{.underline}**

[COMPANY_NAME] CO. DEFENDANT

\* \* \* \* \* \*

For his Memorandum in Support of his Motions in Limine against Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], by and through counsel, states as follows:

**[UNDISPUTED FACTS]{.underline}**

1.  **Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] are the Reparation Obligor relative to this subject collision, that the Reparation Obligor has duties to the Reparation Insured, and secured injured Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], is the Reparation Insured relative to this subject collision, yet Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME].**

The following facts are not in dispute between Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME], Progressive Casualty Insurance Company (hereinafter referred to as "Progressive").

This case involves a motor vehicle collision, which occurred on [DATE] in Louisville, Jefferson County, Kentucky. As a result of this motor vehicle collision, Mr. Ambure suffered injuries on and about his body. In accordance with the terms of his automobile insurance policy, Mr. Ambure contacted the Defendant and reported the collision; for which Defendant opened a claim identified as 12-2943813. Shortly thereafter, Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] and submitted his medical bills for said treatment to Progressive. Progressive has denied payment for the Plaintiff's medical expenses, in the amount of \$7,327.00, to date.

Liability has been clear from the collision forward; the at-fault driver, Monique Black turned left, failing to yield to oncoming traffic, and struck Mr. Ambure's vehicle. (See Police Report, [Exhibit #)]{.mark} Ms. Black was insured through USAA, whom has already settled with Mr. Ambure. Mr. Ambure did nothing to cause this accident and his subsequent injuries, however Progressive still refuses, neglects, and fails to perform their duties as a reparation obligor.

Discovery thus far has conclusively established Progressive is the reparation obligor for Mohamed Ambure. In fact, their CR 30.02(6) designated Corporate Representative, Owen K. Caster, III, testified on behalf of Progressive during a deposition on [DATE] and affirmed that Progressive was aware of the subject collision of [DATE], that Progressive did not dispute that the Plaintiff was involved in the subject collision ([Exhibit \_\_\_]{.mark} 10:3 -- 10:15), and that Progressive is indeed the reparation obligor for Mohamed Ambure:

> Q: Now, did this accident involve a secured vehicle?
>
> A: This accident did involve a secured vehicle, yes.
>
> Q: And is there any dispute that the vehicle that Mr. Ambure was driving in was insured by Progressive was a secured vehicle under the Motor Vehicle Reparations Act?
>
> A: There is no dispute over that, no.
>
> Q: Now, does progressive agree that basic reparation benefits are to be paid without regard to fault?
>
> A: That's part of the Motor Vehicle Reparations Act, so yes.
>
> Q: That's why we call it no-fault insurance, right?
>
> A: Correct.

([Exhibit \_\_\_\_]{.mark} 10:16 -- 11:7); and in discussing Progressive's investigation process of this reported claim:

> Q: I want to be clear about any coverage investigation that you did related to this claim. Was there a question about coverage?
>
> A: There was a question about how the loss occurred, did it occur as it was reported. And so from the perspective there was that aspect of coverage. **There was no issue as far as the policy was in force at the time of the accident, the vehicle was** **on that policy. There was no question about that**. We just wanted to make sure the loss did occur as reported.
>
> ([Exhibit \_\_\_\_]{.mark} 43:20 -- 44:7) Emphasis added.

As evidenced in Mr. Caster's deposition transcript wherein he testified on behalf of and for Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], Progressive does not dispute that they are the reparation obligor responsible for paying basic reparation benefits (hereinafter referred to as "BRB"), including medical expenses, for Mohamed Ambure. Nonetheless, they have completely denied him any and all BRB. Despite their failure to pay BRB to Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] by order in *limine* from introducing any claim that they are not responsible to pay BRB as the undisputed Reparation Obligor.

**[LEGAL ARGUMENT]{.underline}**

1.  INVESTIGATION\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

To date, Progressive has argued that it has not made any BRB payments for revolving reasons. First, they denied benefits while they investigated if the loss occurred as it was reported, as cited above. Secondly, now more than 3 years post-collision, they remain clung to their position that they are still investigating the medical bills and records for relativity, necessity, and reasonableness. ([Exhibit \_\_\_\_]{.mark} 41:6 -- 42:5; and 53:24 -- 56:2). Ultimately, as discussed in the following paragraphs, they further denied Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME] was served upon them.

As to Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], liability has been clear from the date of collision, [DATE] forward. The Plaintiff timely filed his Personal Injury Protection (hereinafter, "PIP") application ([Exhibit #),]{.mark} containing the facts of how the loss occurred, this reporting of the collision matches the description contained in the Police Report ([Exhibit #)]{.mark}. Additionally, the at-fault driver, Monique Black whom was insured through USAA, quickly accepted liability and has already settled with Mr. Ambure. Furthermore, Progressive's designated corporate representative testified as to his decision, only 3 months after this accident, not to pursue an examination under oath:

> A: And my involvement in the claim came when, as I say, SIU \[Special Investigations Unit\] had got to a point in their investigation where they wanted to ask, do you want to get an examination under oath, and I said no.
>
> Q: Why did you decide that?
>
> A: I felt like based on the information that they had compiled that there wasn't an overwhelming or compelling item of information that would warrant asking Mr. Ambure to attend an examination under oath.
>
> Q: So then you said that you made that decision and you said let's move forward and see what we owe.
>
> A: Yes.
>
> ([Exhibit \_\_\_\_]{.mark} 44:8 -44:22)

2.  **MED BILLS submitted are presumed reasonable as prescribed by law**

The plain language of KRS 304.39-020(5)(a) explicitly states that "\[t\]here shall be a presumption that any medical bill submitted is reasonable." According to long standing legal precedent in Kentucky, this Court's "duty is to ascertain and give effect to the intent" of the Legislature. [[PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME] of Education of Jefferson County]{.underline}, 873 S.W.2d 575, 577 (Ky. 1994). In so doing, this Court is directed to follow the clear language of the statute and when "plain and unambiguous" words are employed, we must apply those terms "without resort to any construction or interpretation." [[PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME]]{.underline}, 907 S.W.2d 779, 782 (Ky. App. 1995). In sum, if this Court follows the legal principles of statutory interpretation it should find that KRS 304.39, and specifically KRS 304.39-020, to be clear on its face and not susceptible of interpretation-especially not the proposition that a reparation obligor can deny paying BRB without rebutting the statutory presumption.

Mr. Ambure timely submitted his medical bills to Progressive, a copy of which are attached hereto as [Exhibit "#."]{.mark} ~~However, the Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME], neglected, and failed to pay any portion of these bills in violation of the KMVRA. The Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] and are not qualified to make medical necessity determinations.~~

Again, according to KRS 304.39-020(5)(a), it is presumed that any medical bill submitted

is reasonable. [See also]{.underline} [Outlaw]{.underline}, 575 S.W.2d at 493. Further, the submission of actual medical bills in connection with a motor vehicle collision has been conclusively found to satisfy the statutory requirement of reasonable proof of the fact and amount of the loss realized. [Id.]{.underline} According to statute, these bills were to be paid within thirty (30) days, and Progressive neglected to do so; therefore, the payments are overdue. KRS 304.39-210(3) unequivocally mandates that the reparation obligor, in this case Progressive, must timely pay the claimant as his loss accrues

3.  **BRB payments are long overdue and %%%% 18% interest is due by statute so Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME] is not due to Plaintiff, [PLAINTIFF_NAME].**

KRS 304.39.210(1) provides that the reparation obligor must pay benefits monthly as the claimant's loss accrues. Loss accrues when medical expenses are incurred. These payments are considered overdue if not paid within thirty (30) days of the insurer's receipt of reasonable proof of the amount of loss. Noting that basic reparation benefits must be paid monthly and citing this statute, the Court of Appeals theorized in [State Automobile Mutual Insurance Co. v. Outlaw]{.underline}, 575 S.W.2d 489 (Ky. App. 1978), that \[a\]ssuming that Outlaw \[the claimant\] had filed a claim for benefits soon after the accident and that the assigned claims bureau had promptly assigned her claim to State Auto \[the reparation obligor\], State Auto would not have had any right to make any deduction for any future medical assistance payments. Id. at 494.

Progressive can only avoid the penalties of interest and attorney's fees for its denial to pay Plaintiff' BRB if it can show it had a reasonable foundation for delaying and/or denying payment of the claim. [Automobile Club Insurance Co. v. Lainhar]{.underline}t, 609 S.W.2d 692, 694 (Ky. App. 1980). It cannot do so. A reasonable foundation for delay can only be established by an "assertion of a legitimate and bona fide defense by the reparation obligor" or by proof the claimant failed to provide the obligor with reasonable proof of loss in a timely fashion. [Id.]{.underline} at 695; [see also [PLAINTIFF_NAME] v. [DEFENDANT_NAME]]{.underline}, 603 S.W.2d 498, 499 (Ky. App. 1980); [Outlaw]{.underline}, 575 S.W.2d at 494-495.

4.  No freaking expert:

Defendants deadline to identify an expert witness expired on January 1^st^, 2016 pursuant to the Trial Order entered in this matter on [DATE]. Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME]. Lacking a qualified expert to opine as to the reasonableness, necessity and whether or not Mr. Ambure's injuries are related to the subject collision, they cannot speak to causation. Therefore, Defendant, [DEFENDANT_NAME]. Ambure's injuries, or to state that he is not injured as a result of this collision, or to state that his medical treatment and medical billing were not reasonable and necessary and related to the subject collision.

Progressive has not provided a single reason or support for its denial of payment of Plaintiff's medical bills, or one that could be found to constitute a reasonable foundation to delay and/or deny payment. Progressive was in receipt of Plaintiff's medical bills shortly after the motor vehicle collision at issue and was aware of their obligations under the KMVRA. Progressive has not provided a scintilla of evidence to refute the statutory presumption of the reasonableness of Plaintiff's medical bills, the reasonableness or necessity of Plaintiff's medical treatment, or anything to show that it did not receive Plaintiff's medical bills. Progressive has no expert witness, as required by the laws of the commonwealth, to testify in regards to the medical necessity, reasonableness, or relativity of Plaintiff's medical records and bills and therefore cannot make statements of the same issues before the jury in the trial of this action.

**[CONCLUSION]{.underline}**

WHEREFORE, for the aforementioned reasons, the Plaintiff moves this honorable Court enter the above orders in *limine* for the trial in this action.

> Respectfully submitted,
>
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
>
> Aaron Michael Murphy
>
> MURPHY & ASSOCIATES PLC
>
> 455 S. 4^th^ Street, Suite 1250
>
> Louisville, Kentucky [ZIP_CODE]
>
> Phone: [PHONE]
>
> Fax: [PHONE]
>
> Email: <[EMAIL]>
>
> *Attorney for the Plaintiff, Mohamed Ambure*
