You keep missing my point. I'm not saying your facts are wrong. I'm not saying the fraud didn't happen. I'm not asking you to bring more evidence. My point is about what conclusions you draw from the facts and the vast generalizations you make about groups.  Let's look at your facts.

"81-84% of Somalians utilizing federal and state welfare dollars " The statistic comes from the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS), a conservative think tank that advocates for reduced immigration. It includes Medicaid and SNAP As receiving welfare. 78% Of Somali immigrants have Medicaid.Medicaid is means-tested by person. That means if you have more people in a household, i.e. more kids, then someone in that household, probably the kids, are going to be on Medicaid.And it's also determined by state, so Minnesota, which has the highest proportion of Somali refugees or immigrants, you qualify for Medicaid at 200% of the poverty line.And Somalians tend to have large families with lots of kids. So a family of four may not qualify for Medicaid, but if it's a family of six, then they'd qualify. Nothing's changed. They just have two more kids.So you hear 80% or whatever of Somalians after 10 years are still on welfare, and you conclude that they don't contribute anything meaningful to society, so they must be criminals.Or at the very least, of no use, and so why do we have them here?That ignores lots of reasons why they would still be receiving some sort of assistance like Medicaid.It also ignores other statistics, like Somali men aged 25-64 have an 84% labor force participation rate.Compared to 81% for US-born men.So they're working, they're just poor. Which is kind of a problem for everybody in this country.

It also ignores the fact that Somalians aren't just immigrating here because they want to. They're fleeing as some politicians today like to say the shit-hole country that is Somalia.They're refugees.They're largely uneducated and so we aren't taking them in as a country because we like them as potential contributors to our society. We're doing it because it's an obligation that all countries have to take in refugees.

"Either way, why would we then bring them here? Answer: they vote democrat in lockstep " This is particularly unhinged.There's less than 300,000 Somalis in this country that have achieved citizenship.And your argument is that in Minnesota, Democrats are allowing them to steal hundreds of millions or maybe even billions of dollars just so they'll vote for Democrats.Even though they're all urban and minorities, groups that you don't have to pay to vote Democrat.You'd get more votes buying people coffee at Target.And it'd be cheaper.

I'm trying to argue with you about your facts. I assume every single one of them is true. But you don't think for a second that it could be other conclusions or other reasons. You just assume whatever the talking point is for the right.I mean, you literally say it. "If 78% of your population is on welfare after ten years it means you’re people aren’t needed in the country you immigrated to or your criminals stealing from the people who took you in. There isn’t another alternative "
